Bluetooth: Memfault Diagnostic GATT service (#8071)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/peripheral_mds/README.rst

.. _peripheral_mds:

Bluetooth: Peripheral Memfault Diagnostic Service (MDS)
#######################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Peripheral Memfault Diagnostic Service sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`mds_readme` with the `Memfault SDK`_ in the |NCS| Bluetooth application to collect core dumps and metrics.
The Memfault diagnostic data is sent through the Bluetooth gateway.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

.. include:: /includes/hci_rpmsg_overlay.txt

Before using the Memfault platform, you must register an account in the `Memfault registration page`_ and `create a new project in Memfault`_.
After registration you can connect up to 100 devices for free.

Overview
********

> In this sample, Memfault SDK is used as a module in |NCS| to collect coredumps, reboot reasons, metrics and trace events from devices and send through Bluetooth gateway to the Memfault cloud.

Author: I can mention it

The trace events are defined in the file :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_mds/config/memfault_trace_reason_user_config.def`.
See the `Memfault: Error Tracking with Trace Events`_ for more details about trace events.

Coredumps
=========

Coredumps can be triggered in this sample in the following ways:

   * **Button 4** - triggers the Hardfault exception by division by zero
   * ``mfl crash`` shell command - triggers an assertion fail.

When the fault occurs it causes crashes that are captured by the Memfault.
After your development kits rebooting and reconnection with Bluetooth gateway it sends a coredump data to the Memfault cloud for further inspection and analysis.

Memfault shell
==============

The Bluetooth MDS sample enables shell interface by default.
You can use it to trigger different event instead of using development kit buttons.

You can check the list of available command here: `Memfault Demo CLI`_.

.. _peripheral_mds_user_interface:

User interface
**************

The sample supports a simple user interface.
You can control the sample using predefined buttons, while LEDs are used to display information.

LED 1:

>    Blinks when the main loop is running (that is, the device is advertising) with a period of 2 seconds, duty cycle 50%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Blinks when the main loop is running (that is, the device is advertising) with a period of two seconds, duty cycle 50%.
```

LED 2:
   On when the development kit is connected.

Button 1:
   Press this button to start time measuring, the second pressing stops time measuring.

>    During the pairing procedure, press this button to accept the pairing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   During the pairing procedure, press this button to accept pairing.
```

Button 2:
   Triggers the ``Button2StateChanged`` trace event.

   During the pairing procedure, press this button to reject the pairing.

Button 3:
   Every press of this button is counting under the ``Button3PressCount`` metric.

Button 4:
   Simulate development kit crash by triggering Hardfault exception by division by zero.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Configuration
*************

> The Memfault SDK allows the configuration of some of its options using Kconfig.
> To configure the options in the SDK that are not available for configuration using Kconfig, use :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_mds/config/memfault_platform_config.h`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Memfault SDK allows configuring some of its options using Kconfig.
For the options not configurable using Kconfig, use the :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_mds/config/memfault_platform_config.h` file.
```

See `Memfault SDK`_ for more information.

> |config|

Reviewer: Move this right under the "Configuration" heading.

> To send data to the Memfault cloud through Bluetooth gateway, a project key must be configured using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_PROJECT_KEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send data to the Memfault cloud through a Bluetooth gateway, you must configure a project key using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_PROJECT_KEY` option.
```

> To send data to the Memfault cloud through Bluetooth gateway, a project key must be configured using :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_PROJECT_KEY`.

Author: Good idea :)

> The additional required static configurations for this sample are following:
> 
>    * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_DEVICE_ID` - Memfault device id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to set the following static configuration option for this sample:

:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MEMFAULT_NCS_DEVICE_ID` - Memfault device ID.
```

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/peripheral_mds`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

> Before testing, ensure that your device is configured with the project key of your Memfault project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before testing, ensure that your device is configured with the project key of your Memfault project.

```

|test_sample|

Testing with Memfault WebBluetooth Client
-----------------------------------------

1. |connect_terminal_ANSI|

> #. Reset development kit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Reset your development kit.
```

#. Observe that the sample starts.

> #. Open or install a recent version of the `Google Chrome browser`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Open a recent version of the `Google Chrome browser`_.
```

> #. Run the `Memfault WebBluetooth Client`_  script to forward memfault diagnostic data to the cloud.
>    For more details check the script source code here: `Memfault WebBluetooth CLient source code`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Run the `Memfault WebBluetooth Client`_  script to forward Memfault diagnostic data to the cloud.
   For more details, see the `Memfault WebBluetooth CLient source code`_.
```

>    For more details check the script source code here: `Memfault WebBluetooth CLient source code`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   For more details check the script source code here: `Memfault WebBluetooth Client source code`_.
```

#. Make sure that your development kit is advertising.

> #. In browser click :guilabel:`Connect` button and select your device from the list.
> #. Use buttons on a development kit to confirm or reject a pairing request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the browser, click the :guilabel:`Connect` button and select your device from the list.
#. Use the buttons on your development kit to confirm or reject a pairing request:
```
Is the "browser" referring to the web browser? You mention "web browser" below.

Author: Yes. It is Google Chrome web browser

   .. code-block:: console

      Pairing confirmation required for 6D:99:66:6E:19:72 (random)
      Press Button 1 to confirm, Button 2 to reject.

#. Upon connection data already collected by the `Memfault SDK`_ will be forwarded to the cloud for further the analysis.
   When connected the new data will be periodically flushed to the cloud with the interval configured by :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MDS_DATA_POLL_INTERVAL`.
#. Upload the symbol file generated from your build to your Memfault account so that the information from your application can be parsed. The symbol file is located in the build folder: :file:`peripheral_memfault/build/zephyr/zephyr.elf`:

   * In a web browser, navigate to `Memfault`_.
   * Login to your account and select the project you created earlier.
   * Navigate to :guilabel:`Fleet` > :guilabel:`Devices` in the left menu.

      You can see your newly connected device and the software version in the list.

   * Click on the software version number for your device and then the :guilabel:`Upload` button to upload the symbol file.

> #. Back in the terminal, press <TAB> on your keyboard to confirm that the Memfault shell is working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. In the terminal, press the **Tab** button on your keyboard to confirm that the Memfault shell is working.
```

>    The available shell commands are displayed.
> #. Learn about the available Memfault shell commands by issuing the command ``mflt help``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The available shell commands are displayed.
   
   To learn about the available Memfault shell commands, issue the command ``mflt help``.
```

> #. Use buttons to trigger Memfault crashes, traces and metrics collection.
>    Check the :ref:`peripheral_mds_user_interface` section to get details about buttons functions.
> #. Explore the Memfault user interface to look at the errors and metrics that has been sent from your device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Use the buttons to trigger Memfault crashes, traces and metrics collection.
    See :ref:`peripheral_mds_user_interface` for details about buttons functions.
#. Explore the Memfault user interface to see the errors and metrics sent from your device.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#. Observe that the sample starts.
#. Open a recent version of the `Google Chrome browser`_.
#. Run the `Memfault WebBluetooth Client`_  script to forward memfault diagnostic data to the cloud.
   For more details check the script source code here: `Memfault WebBluetooth Client source code`_.
#. Make sure that your development kit is advertising.
#. In the browser, click the :guilabel:`Connect` button and select your device from the list.
#. Use the buttons on your development kit to confirm or reject a pairing request:

   .. code-block:: console

      Pairing confirmation required for 6D:99:66:6E:19:72 (random)
      Press Button 1 to confirm, Button 2 to reject.

#. Upon connection, data already collected by the `Memfault SDK`_ is forwarded to the cloud for further the analysis.
   When connected, the new data is periodically flushed to the cloud with the interval configured by the option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_MDS_DATA_POLL_INTERVAL`.
#. Upload the symbol file generated from your build to your Memfault account so that the information from your application can be parsed.
   The symbol file is located in the build folder :file:`peripheral_memfault/build/zephyr/zephyr.elf`.

>    a. In a web browser, navigate to `Memfault`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

   a. In a web browser, navigate to `Memfault`_.
```
I believe this missing empty line made the doc build crash.

Author: Fixed

   #. Log in to your account and select the project you created earlier.
   #. Navigate to :guilabel:`Fleet` > :guilabel:`Devices` in the left side menu.
      You can see your newly connected device and the software version in the list.
   #. Click on the software version number for your device and then the :guilabel:`Upload` button to upload the symbol file.

> #. In the terminal, press the **Tab** button on your keyboard to confirm that the Memfault shell is working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Return to the terminal and press the **Tab** button on your keyboard to confirm that the Memfault shell is working.
```

>    The available shell commands are displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The shell commands available are displayed.
```

>    To learn about the available Memfault shell commands, issue the command ``mflt help``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To learn about the Memfault shell commands, issue command ``mflt help``.
```

#. Use the buttons to trigger Memfault crashes, traces and metrics collection.

>     See :ref:`peripheral_mds_user_interface` for details about buttons functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   See :ref:`peripheral_mds_user_interface` for details about button functions.
```
